---
layout: "post"
title:  "COPASI Tutorial at ICSB 2007"
author: "Stefan Hoops"
topic:  "Meetings"
date:   "2007-09-05 08:02:00"
---

A tutorial featuring [Advanced Model Analysis with COPASI] will be offered at the 
[ICSB 2007](http://www.icsb-2007.org/) on Monday October 1st in the morning session. 
To register for this tutorial please visit 
[ICSB registration site](http://www.icsb-2007.org/registration/index.html).

##Advanced Model Analysis with COPASI
Pedro Mendes, Stefan Hoops and Sven Sahle, University of Manchester,
UK, Virginia Bioinformatics Institute, USA, and University of
Heidelberg, Germany. 

###[Tutorial Page]({{ site.baseurl }}/Events/Past_Events/ICSB_2007_Tutorial/)

We will explain how to utilize parameter scan, optimization, and
parameter estimation to understand and improve models using the COPASI
software. The tutorial will include a short introduction to the
optimization problem. 

COPASI (Complex Pathway Simulator) is a software application for
simulation and analysis of biochemical networks. It is developed
jointly by the groups of Pedro Mendes (Virginia Bioinformatics
Institute, USA, and University of Manchester, UK) and Ursula Kummer
(University of Heidelberg, Germany), and is freely available for
academic use. 

COPASI's current features include stochastic and deterministic time
course simulation, steady state analysis (including stability),
metabolic control analysis, elementary mode analysis, mass
conservation analysis, import and export of SBML level 2,
optimization, parameter scanning and parameter estimation. It runs on
MS Windows, Linux, OS X, and Solaris SPARC. 

Participants are strongly encouraged to bring their own computers and
download files attached to the 
[Tutorial Page]({{ site.baseurl }}/Events/Past_Events/ICSB_2007_Tutorial/).

Target Audience: This tutorial is primarily aimed at experimentalists
who are newcomers to the computational side of systems biology or
experienced modelers who want to explore advanced parameter estimation
features of COPASI. 

