---
layout: "post"
title:  "COPASI 4.4.27 (development) Released"
author: "Stefan Hoops"
topic:  "Release"
date:   "2008-08-20 01:46:00"
---

The COPASI team announces the immediate availability of the development release COPASI 4.4.27(development).

A new development release of COPASI has been made available. Please visit our [tiki-index.php?page_ref_id=106|non-commercial]  and ((Commercial|commercial)) pages to download the latest development release.

COPASI 4.4.27 (development) has the following new features:
* ~~#BB0000:__MIRIAM compliant annotation__~~ for the model, species, compartments, reactions, global quantities, and kinetic functions. For details about this new feature please see the technical documentation for [http://www.copasi.org/tiki-index.php?page_ref_id=155|MIRIAM Annotation].
* Added information to the Time Course task displaying the integration and output intervals.
* The initial time has been fixed to 0 for autonomous models. This is no restriction to the capabilities of COPASI since autonomous models are time independent.
* The correct number of substrates and products is only enforced for kinetic functions which are classified as being reversible or irreversible. This means the list of valid functions shows now all functions which are classified as unrestricted. 
* It is now possible to save plots as well as the main widget as png files. This feature provides an additional way to preserve the results.


In addition several bugs have been fixed, a full list can be found in the [tiki-index.php?page_ref_id=153|changelog].

