---
layout: "post"
title:  "COPASI Java and Python Language Bindings"
author: "gauges"
topic:  "Release"
date:   "2008-06-16 10:47:00"
---

Java and Python language bindings for a major part of the COPASI C++ API have been made available for download as binaries and source packages.


Java and Python language bindings for a major part of the COPASI C++ API  have been made available for download as binaries and source packages. These language bindings allow programmers to use most of COPASI functionality from the Java and Python programming languages.

The current release has the following features:
- support for loading and saving COPASI files
- import and export of SBML files
- building and editing of models
- time course simulations (deterministic and stochastic)
- steady state analysis
- parameter scan
- optimization

The bindings are released under the same license as the rest of the COPASI binaries and they are currently unsupported.

Since they are very new, we would consider this to be a alpha release and occasional problems are to be expected. Nevertheless, we hope that some might find them useful.

There is some preliminary documentation for the Java bindings included and most principles described can be applied to Python in a similar fashion.

If you are having problems in getting the bindings to work or in getting them to do what you want, please consider posting to the user support forum so that other user may benefit from your experience.

If you find something that is clearly a bug or that there is an error in the documentation, please let us know either by email to bugs@copasi.org or by submitting an issue report to the COPASI Issue Tracker. This would help us to bring the bindings to a state where they will usable and where we can actually give support.

