---
layout: "post"
title:  "COPASI User Workshop Announcement "
author: "Stefan Hoops"
topic:  "Meetings"
date:   "2009-05-18 11:10:00"
---

The COPASI team announces 2  Workshops for the summer 2009. The 3 day __Modelling and Simulation in Systems Biology__ courses will be offerd at VBI, Blacksburg, USA and MCISB Manchester, UK. 

## Announcing two COPASI Workshops in 2009

### Modelling and Simulation in Systems Biology
* June 30 - July 2, 2009 at Virginia Bioinformatics Institute, <br/>
  Blacksburg, VA, USA <br/>
  http://www.copasi.org/UserWorkshop2009 <br/>
  Led by Pedro Mendes and Stefan Hoops

* July 28 - July 30, 2009 at the Manchester Centre for <br/>
  Integrative Systems Biology, Manchester, UK <br/>
  http://www.mcisb.org/news/copasi_workshop.html <br/>
  Led by Pedro Mendes and Juergen Pahle

These two workshops are for current or prospective users of the COPASI
modeling and simulation package for system biology. One workshop will
take place in the USA, while the second will take place in the
UK. Both workshops will be similar in structure  and we hope this way
to cater for audiences in both sides of the Atlantic.  

These workshops are directed both at beginners as well as advanced
users and there will be sessions directed at each of these groups (in
parallel if needed). The workshops will also be an important means for
the COPASI development team to collect feedback from users about
improving the software.  

COPASI is a free, open-source, software package for creating and
simulating systems biology models. COPASI runs on Windows, Mac, Linux
and Solaris and it is a user-friendly software that allows for
construction of kinetic models without much knowledge of
mathematics. However COPASI is also equipped with advanced algorithms
and is a powerful tool for modeling and simulation, with some features
that are not available in other simulators. COPASI is available at
http://www.copasi.org 

The workshops will cover several features of modeling and simulation
by using examples of previously published models. The set of topics
covered: 

* Basic Modeling and Simulation - How to create biochemical kinetic
  models, and find out their dynamic behavior and steady-state
  properties. 
* Stochastic Simulation - COPASI's capabilities for running
  Gillespie's algorithm, as well as for automatically converting
  ODE-based models to the stochastic representation. 
* Sensitivity Analysis - Study of the importance of parameters in
  determining the values of model variables. This includes local as well
  as global sensitivity analysis. 
* Parameter Scans - How to easily program COPASI to 
  1. carry out many simulations at different parameter values; 
  1. random sampling of parameter values, and 
  1. determine distributions in stochastic models.
* Optimization - How to use numerical optimization methods to explore
  the properties of large and complex models. This includes the use of
  optimization in strategies for metabolic engineering.
* Parameter Estimation - How to use experimental data to calibrate
  models to represent real biological systems accurately. This includes
  analysis of enzyme kinetic experiments, and in vivo time courses of
  cell biology experiments, among other applications.
* Data Visualization and Reports - COPASI has a flexible means of
  defining customized reports and plots, including trajectories, phase
  planes, and histograms. 
* Batch Processing - An advanced feature of COPASI is that it can be
  run unattended from a command line, which allows for the creation of
  complex work flows, including batch processing and parallel execution
  in clusters or Condor pools. 
* Integration with other Software Packages - How to use COPASI
  together with other applications that support SBML (e.g. Biomodels
  database, CellDesigner and SBW)
* Web Services - How to access COPASI functionality in other software
  through using the web services technology. 

Details about registration and travel for each of these workshops can
be obtained at their respective web pages: 

Virginia:
[VBI User Workshop 2009]({{ site.baseurl }}/Events/Past_Events/COPASI_User_Workshop_2009)
(small registration fee (includes lodging) and possibility of getting financial support) 

Manchester:
[http://www.mcisb.org/news/copasi_workshop.html](http://www.mcisb.org/news/copasi_workshop.html) 
(free registration) 

