---
layout: "post"
title:  "COPASI License changes to Artistic License 2.0"
author: "Stefan Hoops"
topic:  "COPASI"
date:   "2010-08-16 08:00:00"
---

Starting with build 33 of COPASI, the software will be distributed
under the [Artistic License
2.0](http://www.opensource.org/licenses/artistic-license-2.0.php), an
approved open source license.  

## COPASI License changes to Artistic License 2.0

Starting with build 33 of COPASI (version 4.6.33), the software will
be distributed under the __Artistic License 2.0__ for all uses of the
software without a fee.  The
[Artistic License 2.0](http://www.opensource.org/licenses/artistic-license-2.0.php),
is an [OSI](http://www.opensource.org/)
approved open source license, which will allow <u>everyone</u> to use
future releases of COPASI free of charge and with more freedom of
distribution.  

This change in license will bring a number of benefits, for example:

1. COPASI can now include software libraries that are released under
licenses that were previously incompatible with COPASI's. 
1. 3rd parties will be able to distribute unmodified versions of COPASI  
1. 3rd parties will be able to develop software packages based on
COPASI and distribute them under a small number of restrictions
(designed to protect the COPASI brand). 
1. 3rd parties will be able to provide services based on COPASI. 

The first point will allow us, the COPASI team to enhance quality and
functionality of COPASI more easily since a lot of academic software
is released under licenses which are incompatible with the previous
licensing scheme. The second point allows COPASI to be included in
other software bundles, such as Linux distributions. The last two
points will benefit other academic teams which are now able to make
use of COPASI within their software projects and distribute the
results freely . 

__What does this mean to current COPASI users?__

* If you are a user of COPASI under the non-commercial license, you
  can continue using COPASI exactly as before.  
* If you are a user of COPASI under the commercial license, you are no
  longer required to pay for upgrades of COPASI. You are free to use
  COPASI under the same license as everyone else. All future versions of
  COPASI will be entirely free to be used in commercial settings. 

__We would like this opportunity to thank all of our previous
commercial licensee's which have provided us a strong vote of
confidence and much needed validation that our software is indeed
useful in all settings and that it is competitive with other
offerings, including commercial ones.__ 

We hope that the new licensing scheme of COPASI will expand the user
base of COPASI and the range of applications. 

The COPASI development team.

