---
layout: "post"
title:  "COPASI 4.6 (Build 32) Released"
author: "Stefan Hoops"
topic:  "Release"
date:   "2010-07-21 04:31:00"
---

The COPASI team announces the immediate availability of the stable release COPASI 4.6 (Build 32).


A new stable release of COPASI has been made available. Please visit our ((DownloadNonCommercial|non-commercial))  and ((Commercial|commercial)) pages to download this latest development release. This release of COPASI passes all test of the [http://sourceforge.net/projects/sbml/files/test-suite/2.0.0%20alpha/|SBML Test Suite] for all version of SBML up to ))L2V4(( with the exception of test including the unsupported features of algebraic rules or 'fast' reactions.

!!!New Features in this Release compared with last stable Release 
* Graphical User Interface (CopasiUI)
** Sorting and filtering in tables, which eases handling of large models.
** Enhanced result representation of elementary flux mode analysis.
** Improved SBW registration to handle multiple COPASI installations. 
* Simulation Engine
** Support of conditional events, which are discrete changes to the model.
** 2 new stochastic simulation algorithms, which implements the direct Gillespie algorithm and ))Tau-Leap(( method. 
** Eigenvalues of the steady-state Jacobians are now available for further processing or output.
* SBML
** Import and export of [http://sbml.org/Documents/Specifications#SBML_Level_2_Version_4|SBML Level 2 Version 4].
** Full support for SBML event import/export

A list of resolved issues can be found in the [tiki-index.php?page=Build32Changelog&structure=ChangeHistory|changelog] for this release.


