---
layout: "post"
title:  "COPASI 4.6.33 (development) Released"
author: "Stefan Hoops"
topic:  "Release"
date:   "2010-10-07 06:30:00"
---

The COPASI team announces the immediate availability of the
development release COPASI 4.6.33 (development). 

A new development release of COPASI has been made available. Please
visit our [free download]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/)
page to retrieve this latest development release. Please
note this version is released under the 
[Artistic License 2.0]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/License/), 
which is an [OSI](http://www.opensource.org/) approved license. This
license allows non-commercial and commercial use free of charge. 

###New Features  in this Release

* Graphical User Interface (CopasiUI)
  * Notes in text or XHTML format are now available for compartments,
    species, reactions, global quantities, events, and kinetic
    functions. 
  * Support links in XHTML notes.
  * Support of render informations in graphical model layouts.
* Simulation Engine
  * Enhanced MCA algorithm performance by applying a new selection
    criterion before each internal step. 
  * Added an stochastic algorithm (Adaptive SSA/Tau-Leap) which
    dynamically partitions the model into parts simulated by the
    direct algorithm and the Tau-Leap algorithm.
* SBML
  * Import SBML Level 3 Version 1 (Release Candidate).
  * Added SBML notes support for compartments, species, reactions,
    global quantities, events, and kinetic functions. 
  * Added MIRIAM annotation support for events.
  * Support for the SBML Render Extension.

A list of resolved issues can be found in the
[changelog]({{ site.baseurl }}/Support/Change_History/COPASI_4_6_33_development/)
for this release. 

