---
layout: "post"
title:  "COPASI 4.7 (Build 34) Released"
author: "Stefan Hoops"
topic:  "Release"
date:   "2011-07-13 09:57:00"
---

The COPASI team announces the immediate availability of the stable
release COPASI 4.7 (Build 34).

A new stable release of COPASI has been made available. Please
visit our [free download]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/)
page to retrieve this latest development release. Please
note this version is released under the 
[Artistic License 2.0]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/License/), 
which is an [OSI](http://www.opensource.org/) approved license. This
license allows non-commercial and commercial use free of charge.

This release features new 64 bit packages for Linux, Mac OS X, and Windows.

__New features since the previous stable release:__

* Graphical User Interface (CopasiUI)
  * Enhanced parsing of mathematical expression to allow the
    comparison operator &lt;, &lt;=, &gt;, &gt;=, and == as well as
    the Boolean operators || and &amp;&amp;.
  * Allowed calculation results to be selected as constraints for
    optimization and parameter estimation. 
  * Improved display of mass conservation results. The moieties are
    now displayed in amount if the user is in the concentration
    framework.
  * Added Update Model button to the optimization result widget
  * Notes in text or XHTML format are now available for compartments,
    species, reactions, global quantities, events, and kinetic
    functions.
  * Support links in XHTML notes.
  * Support of render informations in graphical model layouts.
* Simulation Engine
  * The calculation of statistics is no optional for optimization and
    parameter estimation tasks.
  * Start values can no be randomized automatically for optimization
    and parameter estimation tasks.
  * Enhanced MCA algorithm performance by applying a new selection
    criterion before each internal step. 
  * Added an stochastic algorithm (Adaptive SSA/Tau-Leap) which
    dynamically partitions the model into parts simulated by the
    direct algorithm and the Tau-Leap algorithm.
* SBML
  * Added support for constant conversion factors in Level 3.
  * Import SBML Level 3 Version 1.
  * Added SBML notes support for compartments, species, reactions,
    global quantities, events, and kinetic functions.
  * Added MIRIAM annotation support for events.
  * Support for the SBML Render Extension.

A list of resolved issues can be found in the
[changelog]({{ site.baseurl }}/Support/Change_History/COPASI_4_7_Build_34/)
for this release.



