---
layout: "post"
title:  "COPASI 4.9.45 (Development) Released"
author: "Stefan Hoops"
topic:  "Release"
date:   "2013-01-20 04:19:00"
---

The COPASI team announces the immediate availability of the development release COPASI 4.9.45 (Development).

A new development release of COPASI has been made available. Please visit our <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/Hidden/Obsolete/Download/Free_Version_Artistic_License_2_0" >free download</a> page to retrieve this latest development release. Please note this version is released under the <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/Download/License" >Artistic License 2.0</a>, which is an [OSI](http://www.opensource.org/) approved license. This license allows non-commercial and commercial use free of charge. This release is mainly a bug fix release which increases the stability and usability of COPASI. It therefore contains only few new features.

__New features since the previous stable release:__
!!!New Features since 4.8 (Build 35)
* Graphical User Interface (CopasiUI)
** The start values and parameter boundaries are now displayed in optimization and parameter estimation results. Boundaries are additionally colored red if the result is very close.
** If an unknown MIRIAM resource is found the user receives a message with instruction on how to update the MIRIAM resource database.
** It is now possible to specify the line style and width of curves in a plot.
** Improved GUI for defining plots
** "Window" menu for easier access to plot windows
** Logarithmic axis scaling can now be easily toggled on the plot windows
** Improved default plots for parameter estimation results
** Added User Interface for Linear Noise Approximation Task
** Added User Interface for Cross Section Task 
** Added the capability to add validation data to the parameter estimation task. 
** The location of the last open or save file dialog is no remembered between sessions.
** SBML documents can now be imported by dragging the file onto CopasiUI. 
** MIRIAM annotation which uses identifiers.org resources are now supported.
** The web page describing a MIRIAM resource can now be openend in a Web browser by double clicking the entry in the GUI. 
** Method parameters are now remembered while working with one file. This allows easy switching between methods without the need to reenter the customized parameters.
** Added capability to create an layout the current reaction network.
* Simulation Engine
** Added property DisplayName to all objects which allows to create more meaningful column headers in reports.
** Added Linear Noise Approximation Task
** Added Cross Section Task (for Poincaré type cross sections and bifurcation diagrams)
** Added min() and max() functions to be used in mathematical expressions.
** Added indicator functions for finding bifurcation points to the steady state task
** Added value scaling for parameter estimation
* SBML
** Added support for exporting rates of compartments, species and global quantities
** Export and Import of Level 3 Layout and Render information
** support for exporting min, max, uniform and normal functions
* Language Bindings
** It is now possible to add tool specific annotation in XML format to many entities of the model (compartment, species, reaction, etc.)

A list of resolved issues can be found in the [changelog](tiki-index.php?page=Build45Changelog&structure=ChangeHistory) for this release

