---
layout: "post"
title:  "COPASI 4.12 (Build 81) Released"
author: "Stefan Hoops"
topic:  "Release"
date:   "2014-04-18 02:33:00"
---

The COPASI team announces the immediate availability of the stable release COPASI 4.12 (Build 81).

A new release of COPASI has been made available. Please visit our ((downloadNonCommercial|free download)) page to retrieve this latest development release. Please note this version is released under the ((ArtisticLicense|Artistic License 2.0)), which is an [http://www.opensource.org/|OSI] approved license. This license allows ))non-commercial(( and commercial use free of charge. This release is mainly a bug fix release which increases the stability and usability of COPASI. It therefore contains only few new features.

Release Date: Apr. 18, 2014 
!!!New Features since COPASI 4.11 (Build 65)
* Graphical User Interface (CopasiUI)
** Model Parameter Sets
** Import and Export of Kinetic Function databases.
** Improved Network Diagrams
** Copy functionality for model entities (compartment, species, reactions, functions, etc.)
** Improved child window management under the window menu entry.
** Histograms are now displaying consistently scaled bars (% of total number of recorded values)
** Fixed problem where MIRIAM hyperlinks where not correctly generated for some old style resource identifiers.
* Simulation Engine
** New optimization algorithm: Scatter Search  
** New MCA algorithm (Smallbone)
** Continuation on simultaneous events
* SED-ML
** Implemented SED-ML support
* Source package
** CMake based build system 


