---
layout: "post"
title:  "COPASI Conference Announcement "
author: "Pedro Mendes"
topic:  "Meetings"
date:   "2016-02-18 15:33:00"
---

The COPASI team announces a scientific conference on applications of computational modelling
with COPASI. May 12-13, 2016 at the Manchester Institute of Biotechnology, UK.

## 2016 Conference on Computational Modelling with COPASI

May 12-13, 2016 at the Manchester Institute of Biotechnology, <br/>
Manchester, UK <br/>
[http://www.copasi.org/Events/CMC16]({{ site.baseurl }}/Events/CMC16/)

Announcing a Conference dedicated to computational modelling
research carried out with the software COPASI. This is a forum
where you can present your work and hear the latest research in
modelling and simulation carried out with the software COPASI.
The conference features 3 invited speakers, several oral
presentations selected from submitted abstracts, and posters.
Registration to this conference is FREE.

We solicit abstracts on computational analysis and simulation of
biological and chemical systems carried out with COPASI. The
conference brings together researchers from all areas of biology
and chemistry who are interested in computational modelling of
reaction networks. The abstracts should focus mainly on the
scientific objectives of the work; they should only focus on
methodology if that is the main goal of the work. Abstracts must
be less than 500 words long and with no figures.

Abstract submission deadline: 12 April, 2016.

INVITED SPEAKERS
* Ines Heiland, The Arctic University of Norway, Tromsø:  "Tissue specific models of Trp- and NAD-metabolism — insights into metabolic crosstalk"
* Carole Proctor, Newcastle University: "Computational modelling of musculoskeletal ageing"
* Nicolas le Novère, Babraham Institute, Cambridge: "Calcium Signalling"

SCIENTIFIC COMMITTEE
* Frank Bergmann, Heidelberg
* Joseph Dada, Ado-Ekiti
* Stefan Hoops, Blacksburg
* Douglas B. Kell, Manchester,
* Brian Klahn, Blacksburg
* Ursula Kummer, Heidelberg
* Pedro Mendes, Manchester and Farmington
* Jürgen Pahle, Heidelberg
* Norman Paton, Manchester
* Chris Redfern, Newcastle
* Sven Sahle, Heidelberg
* Hans V. Westerhoff, Manchester and Amsterdam

ORGANISING COMMITTEE
Ettore Murabito, Peyman Zarrineh, Pedro Mendes (Chair)

TRAVEL AND ACCOMMODATION
see http://copasi.org/Events/CMC16/Travel

CONTACT
conference@copasi.org
