---
layout: "post"
title:  "COPASI 4.17 (Build 135) Released"
author: "Stefan Hoops"
topic:  "Release"
date:   "2016-11-21 09:00:00"
---

The COPASI team announces the immediate availability of the stable
release COPASI 4.17 (Build 135). 

A new release of COPASI has been made available. Please visit our 
[free download]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/)
page to retrieve this latest development release. Please
note this version is released under the 
[Artistic License 2.0]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/License/),
which is an [OSI](http://www.opensource.org/) approved license. This license
allows non-commercial and commercial use free of charge. 

Release Date: November 21, 2016 

### New Features since COPASI 4.16 (Build 104)

* Graphical User Interface (CopasiUI)
  * Support for user defined units.
  * Extended unit selection options for time, volume and quantity of the model.  These extended options include user defined units.
  * Unit support for Global Quantities.
  * Undo and redo support for all model changes.
  * Improved user interface to method parameters.
  * Selection of matrix and vector elements by name in addition to the index for plots, reports, and in mathematical expressions.
  * Support for contour plots.
  * Sorting off all analysis result tables is now enabled where appropriate.
  * The MCA results contain now information whether the summation theorems are violated or not allowing the user to easily evaluate the numerical accuracy of the result.
  * It is now possible to the select the units of the rate low for a reaction as either amount per time or concentration per time. If concentration per time is selected and the reaction participates in multiple compartments the scaling compartment can be selected.
* Simulation Engine
  * Added support for arbitrary events to the Stochastic Direct Method.
  * New hybrid simulation algorithm: (Hybrid RK-45) which supports arbitrary discrete events and user defined ODEs. Additionally, the user can specify which reaction are treated continuously and which  are treated discretely. This algorithm passes the SBML semantic test suite and stochastic suite. 
  * It is now possible to report or plot only the internal steps taken by the integration algorithm in the trajectory task.
* SBML
  * Full support for SBML Level 3.1 event semantics
  * Import and export of unit definitions.
  * SBOTerms are no imported and displayed as part of the MIRIAM annotation. On export a the first SBOTerm of the MIRIAM annotation is used if the SBML entity does not have the SBOTerm set.

A list of resolved issues can be found in the 
[changelog]({{ site.baseurl }}/Support/Change_History/COPASI_4_17_Build_135/).
