---
layout: "post"
title:  "COPASI 4.23 (Build 184) Released"
author: "Stefan Hoops"
topic:  "Release"
date:   "2018-04-17 8:00:00"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

The COPASI team announces the immediate availability of the stable
release COPASI 4.23 (Build 184). 

A new release of COPASI has been made available. Please visit our 
[free download]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/)
page to retrieve this latest development release. Please
note this version is released under the 
[Artistic License 2.0]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/License/),
which is an [OSI](http://www.opensource.org/) approved license. This license
allows non-commercial and commercial use free of charge. The main improvement in
this release is a significantly increased performance. This release includes many new features:

<!--more-->

#### New Features
* Graphical User Interface
    * Model Merging: COPASI allows to add a second model and to merge its content with the existing one.
    * Compartment dimensionality may now be specified as: volume, area, length, or dimensionless.
    * Problems (Errors, Warnings) of the model are no marked in the object browser at the problematic entity.
    * Enhanced Unit Support for kinetic parameters.
    * Import and export of Combine Archive is now supported.
    * The full and reduced Jacobian of the current model state are now shown under Model/Mathematical/Matrices.
    * Enable copying table and annotated matrix items to the clipboard.
    * A warning is now raised when loading an invalid model (i.e: one that does not compile) and the problematic
    entity is marked in the browser pane.
    * Added ability to add COPASI version, current date/time, first name, last name, email and organization as
    well as line breaks to a reports.
    * Allow for the selection of matrices in Object Browser expert mode.
    * Plots can be associated with tasks similar to the existing report association
    * The direct dependencies, i.e, the objects which are directly effected by changes or removal of an
    entity are now displayed on all modeling entities.
* Simulation Engine
    * COPASI supports Stochastic Differential Equations (SDEs). It is possible to add noise to reactions and
    entities (compartments, species, and global quantities) determined by ODEs.

Release Date: April 18, 20187

More information can be found in the
[changelog]({{ site.baseurl }}/Support/Change_History/COPASI_4_23_Build_184/).

