--- 
layout: "post" 
title:  "COPASI 4.24 (Build 197) Released" 
author: "Stefan Hoops" 
topic:  "Release" 
date:   "2018-07-30 8:00:00" 
excerpt_separator: <!--more--> 
--- 
 
The COPASI team announces the immediate availability of the stable 
release COPASI 4.24 (Build 197).  
 
A new release of COPASI has been made available. Please visit our  
[free download]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/) 
page to retrieve this latest development release. Please 
note this version is released under the  
[Artistic License 2.0]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/License/), 
which is an [OSI](http://www.opensource.org/) approved license. This license 
allows non-commercial and commercial use free of charge. This is mainly a bug fix release 
with some GUI improvements: 
 
<!--more--> 
 
#### New Features 
* Graphical User Interface 
  * Implemented a new 3d bar graph view of matrixes allowing for better selection of interesting values. 
    The new view also avoids OpenGL issues due to incomplete graphic card support of the OS. 
  * Improved issue display in the object browser which did not recognize missing expressions 
    for entities of type ODE and occasionally marked missing initial expressions when not required. 
  * Improved display of advanced method parameters. If advanced parameter usage is indicated in the 
    preferences they will be shown last. If it is not selected non advanced parameters which are not 
    at their value will be shown to inform the user. 
* SBML 
  *  Models which explicitely reference Avogadro's number can now be exported to SBML.
 
Release Date: July 30, 2018 
 
More information can be found in the 
[changelog]({{ site.baseurl }}/Support/Change_History/COPASI_4_24_Build_197/). 
