--- 
layout: "post" 
title:  "COPASI 4.26 (Build 213) Released" 
author: "Stefan Hoops" 
topic:  "Release" 
date:   "2019-07-30 1:00:00" 
excerpt_separator: <!--more--> 
--- 
 
The COPASI team announces the immediate availability of the stable 
release COPASI 4.26 (Build 213).
 
A new release of COPASI has been made available. Please visit our [free download]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/) page to retrieve this latest development release. Please note this version is released under the [Artistic License 2.0]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/License/), which is an [OSI](http://www.opensource.org/) approved license. This license allows non-commercial and commercial use free of charge. This release has several new features:
 
<!--more--> 
 
#### New Features 
* Graphical User Interface (CopasiUI)
  * Added feature to open files directly from a web page which use the link format: 'copasi://'.
  * It is to possible to specify a user selected list of time point for output in the trajectory tasks.
  * It is now possible to enable automated checks for updates of COPASI as you are used to in many other applications.
  * We added a tool to remove SBML Ids from the COPASI file which are used to facilitate referencing the original SBML Id on export. When an object was renamed the original SBML Id is preserved which is desired in most cases. However there are circumstances where this behavior is not desired. Removing the SBML Ids leads to newly created Id based on the names in COPASI.
  * A COPASI file downloaded using the 'Open URL' method has the targets of reports removed so that a malicious user cannot automatically create harmful content.
* Command-line (CopasiSE)
  * Added option to export ant import different parameterizations of the model through simple ini file.
 
Release Date: July 31, 2019 
 
More information can be found in the 
[changelog]({{ site.baseurl }}/Support/Change_History/COPASI_4_26_Build_213/). 
