--- 
layout: "post" 
title:  "COPASI 4.25 (Build 207) Released" 
author: "Stefan Hoops" 
topic:  "Release" 
date:   "2019-03-15 8:00:00" 
excerpt_separator: <!--more--> 
--- 
 
The COPASI team announces the immediate availability of the stable 
release COPASI 4.25 (Build 207).  
 
A new release of COPASI has been made available. Please visit our [free download]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/) page to retrieve this latest development release. Please note this version is released under the [Artistic License 2.0]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/License/), which is an [OSI](http://www.opensource.org/) approved license. This license allows non-commercial and commercial use free of charge. This release has several new features:
 
<!--more--> 
 
#### New Features 
* Graphical User Interface (CopasiUI)
  * Added capability to load and save model parameter sets from files.
  * Moiety results are now displayed according to the framework, i.e. in amount units or particle numbers.
  * Added default report moiety task
  * Advanced rarely used method parameters are no hidden if they are at default setting. The user can change this behavior through the preference dialog.
  * Combine archive are can now be opened via drag and drop like all other supported formats.
  * Added additional plot type supporting banded graphs.
  * Added the capability to open files directly from an URL under the file menu.
  * Added Lyapunov exponents to the selectable result in the object selection widget.
* Command-line (CopasiSE)
  * Added option to convert the model reactions to irreversible
  * Added option to specify the task to be executed
  * Added option to override the report file name to be used.
* Language Bindings
  * The sed-ml and combine archive functionalities are now exposed in the language bindings.
 
Release Date: March 15, 2019 
 
More information can be found in the 
[changelog]({{ site.baseurl }}/Support/Change_History/COPASI_4_25_Build_207/). 
