--- 
layout: "post" 
title:  "COPASI 4.28 (Build 226) Released" 
author: "Stefan Hoops" 
topic:  "Release" 
date:   "2020-06-12 1:00:00" 
excerpt_separator: <!--more--> 
--- 
 
The COPASI team announces the immediate availability of the stable 
release COPASI 4.28 (Build 226).
 
A new release of COPASI has been made available. Please visit our [free download]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/) page to retrieve this latest development release. Please note this version is released under the [Artistic License 2.0]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/License/), which is an [OSI](http://www.opensource.org/) approved license. This license allows non-commercial and commercial use free of charge. This release has several new features:
 
<!--more--> 
#### New Features
* Graphical User Interface (CopasiUI)
  * Performance improvements while switching to tables of species and reactions or the parameter overview
    for large models through deferred loading.
  * Added line numbers to table of items in the report definition widget.
  * It is now possible to add/merge SBML models to the currently loaded model.
  * It is no possible to change the order of plot items and thus controlling the order in the legend.
* Simulation Engine
  * Added additional convergence criterion to the steady state calculation. The user can chose between
    distance, rate, or both (default). 
  * Added advanced parameter to the Levenberg Marquardt method adjusting the step increase/decrease strategy. 
* Language Bindings
  * The model analyzing tool is now available.
 
Release Date: June 12, 2020 
 
More information can be found in the 
[changelog]({{ site.baseurl }}/Support/Change_History/COPASI_4_28_Build_226/). 
