--- 
layout: "post" 
title:  "COPASI 4.38 (Build 268) Released" 
author: "Stefan Hoops" 
topic:  "Release" 
date:   "2022-11-30 1:00:00" 
excerpt_separator: <!--more--> 
--- 
 
### The COPASI team announces the immediate availability of the stable release COPASI 4.38 (Build 268).
 
A new release of COPASI has been made available. Please visit our [free download]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/) page to retrieve this latest development release. Please note this version is released under the [Artistic License 2.0]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/License/), which is an [OSI](http://www.opensource.org/) approved license. This license allows non-commercial and commercial use free of charge. 
 
Release Date: November 30, 2022 

#### Bug Fixes
* Graphical User Interface (CopasiUI)
  * Improved import von Combine Archives containing multiple SED-ML files and task.
  * Improved display of the Fischer Information Matrix (FIM) and it's analysis supporting unscaled and scaled results in different tabs.
  * Fixed editing of function parameters under Mac OS Big-sur and Monterrey caused by switch to Qt 6.
  * Fixed editing of the weight in the experimental data for parameter fitting when using multiple experiments.
* Simulation Engine
  * Optimization and Parameter Fitting deal now properly with invalid start values for the optimization parameters.
* Standards
  * Support export to SBML of mathematical expression containing initial values.
  * When exporting to SBML all COPASI annotations are now prefixed.
  * Fixed SBML import of units using multipliers different from 1 to encode scaled units.
  * Improved Combine archive export by adding the master flag to SED-ML files.
  * Fixed Combine archive export of old COPASI files created with COPASI prior to COPASI 4.6 (Build 32).
  * Implemented SED-ML import of scan tasks using functional ranges.

More information can be found in the 
[changelog]({{ site.baseurl }}/Support/Change_History/COPASI_4_38_Build_268/). 
