--- 
layout: "post" 
title:  "COPASI 4.41 (Build 283) Released" 
author: "Stefan Hoops" 
topic:  "Release" 
date:   "2023-11-21 1:00:00" 
excerpt_separator: <!--more--> 
--- 
 
### The COPASI team announces the immediate availability of the stable release COPASI 4.41 (Build 283).
 
A new release of COPASI has been made available. Please visit our [free download]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/) page to retrieve this latest development release. Please note this version is released under the [Artistic License 2.0]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/License/), which is an [OSI](https://www.opensource.org/) approved license. This license allows non-commercial and commercial use free of charge. 
 
Release Date: November 21, 2023 
#### New Features
* Simulation Engine 
  * Species particle numbers are no supported as event targets.
  * Optimization & Parameter Estimation: It is now possible to run current solution statistics before adding any optimization parameters.
  
#### Bug Fixes
<!--more-->
* Graphical User Interface (CopasiUI)
  * Reduced COPASI's start up time.
  * Fixed display of message boxes under Qt 6.5.
  * Improved functionality and stability of the plotting engines QWT & QCustomPlot
  * The output assistant suppresses now any check boxes which are not applicable to the current task.
  * Improved display of SBML imported units.
  * Fixed rare crash occurring when lading a new file while displaying a global quantity.
* Simulation Engine 
  * Utilize balanced Abstract Syntax Tree to avoid stack overflows.
  * Fixed loading of COPASI files containing parameter estimation created with COPASI 4.0 (Build 18).
  * The COPASI Version is now correctly displayed in reports.
  * Fixed an error message for trajectory method RK45 which was referring to LSODA.
* Standards 
  * SBML Import: Corrected function parameter classification which effected the UI parameter overview.
  * SBML Import: Avoid redundant division by log(10) when importing logarithm with base 10.
  * SBML Import (layout): Allow import of empty curves.
  * SED-ML Import: Improved import of SED-ML files with multiple task lists, falling back to SBML when all fail.
  * SED-ML Import: Create a warning message when referenced the SBML model is remote resource (unsupported).
* API &amp; Language Bindings
  * Added utility function CFunctionDB::purgeUnusedUserDefinedFunctions().
  * Added editing of constraints in optimization and parameter estimation tasks.

More information can be found in the 
[changelog]({{ site.baseurl }}/Support/Change_History/COPASI_4_41_Build_283/). 
