--- 
layout: "post" 
title:  "COPASI 4.43 (Build 288) Released" 
author: "Stefan Hoops" 
topic:  "Release" 
date:   "2024-04-29 1:00:00" 
excerpt_separator: <!--more--> 
--- 
 
### The COPASI team announces the immediate availability of the stable release COPASI 4.42 (Build 284).
 
A new release of COPASI has been made available. Please visit our [free download]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/) page to retrieve this latest development release. Please note this version is released under the [Artistic License 2.0]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/License/), which is an [OSI](https://www.opensource.org/) approved license. This license allows non-commercial and commercial use free of charge. 
 
Release Date: April 29, 2024 

#### New Features
* Standards 
  * SBML: Added support of SBML Level 3 Version 2
  
#### Bug Fixes
* Graphical User Interface (CopasiUI)
  * Event Overview: The assignments associated with an event are no properly displayed.
  * Optimization: Changing of the subtask is now preserved without running the optimization task.
  * Task and subtask names are now consistently handled in sensitivities, optimization, and scan.
  * Scan Task: Improved handling of output from subtask by allowing finer control over when output is captured.
* Simulation Engine
  * Fix calculations involving constant rates which were in certain situations (e.g. event assignments) not correctly updated.
* Language Bindings
  * In the case that multiple data models with the same name where loaded simultaneously, renaming an object in one data model does not longer effect references the other models. 
  * Setting CCopasiParameter values directly will now result in a call to the parent group to assure proper synchronization of related parameters.

More information can be found in the 
[changelog]({{ site.baseurl }}/Support/Change_History/COPASI_4_43_Build_288/). 
