--- 
layout: "post" 
title:  "COPASI 4.45 (Build 298) Released" 
author: "Stefan Hoops" 
topic:  "Release" 
date:   "2025-04-22 1:00:00" 
excerpt_separator: <!--more--> 
--- 
 
### The COPASI team announces the immediate availability of the stable release COPASI 4.45 (Build 298).
 
A new release of COPASI has been made available. Please visit our [free download]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/) page to retrieve this latest development release. Please note this version is released under the [Artistic License 2.0]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/License/), which is an [OSI](https://www.opensource.org/) approved license. This license allows non-commercial and commercial use free of charge. 
 
Release Date: April 22, 2025 

#### New Features since COPASI 4.44 (Build 295)
* Graphical User Interface (CopasiUI)
  * Added a new tool which attempts to convert ODEs into reactions.
  * Added a menu entry which allows definition and subsequent execution of user defined tools.
* Standards
  * SBML Import added an option determining how to handle the import of initial values initial references.

<!--more-->
#### Bug Fixes and Enhancements since COPASI 4.44 (Build 295)
* Graphical User Interface (CopasiUI)
  * Optimization and Parameter Estimation: Whether to display the population dynamics is now part of the problem specification.
  * Fixed deletion of plots in the plot overview.
  * Fixed issue where event targets where not longer added to plots, reports, and time series.
  * Fixed crash occurring when switching the plot engine to: Qt DataVizualization (surface) for non surface plots.
  * Improved labels for surface plots which where limited to 2 decimal digits.
  * Fixed problem with notes of global quantities occurring when copying.
  * Time course Method Hybrid (RK-45): Selecting the partitioning strategy: user defined and selecting the deterministic reactions caused a crash.
  * Fixed delay during start on some Windows 11 installations caused while saving the known MIRIAM resources.
  * Functions: It is not longer permitted to copy mass action kinetics.
  * Fixed crash occurring when repeatedly deleting parameter sets.
  * Fixed problem deleting multiple global quantities.
  * Fixed crash when deleting interdependent global quantities.
* Command Line (CopasiSE)
  * The argument to the option `--report-file` is now taken relative to the current working directory.
  * Steady-State: Added warning message indicating that no steady-state was found.
* Simulation Engine
  * MCA: Fixed scaling for small compartment volumes.
  * Steady-State: Fixed occasionally occurring problem calculating the target criterions for models containing moieties, which lead to not finding a steady-state.
  * Events: Fixed crash caused by invalid trigger expression.
  * Time Course: Fixed output of all steps when the duration is negative.
  * Parameter Estimation: Non existing constraint objects will lead to a warning message.
* Standards
  * SED-ML: Improved import of time course option initial time and number of points.
  * SBML: Improved import of reaction IDs used in multiple assignments.
  * SBML: Improved import of files containing reaction kinetics with missing parameters.

More information can be found in the 
[changelog]({{ site.baseurl }}/Support/Change_History/COPASI_4_45_Build_298/). 
