--- 
layout: "post" 
title:  "COPASI 4.46 (Build 300) Released" 
author: "Stefan Hoops" 
topic:  "Release" 
date:   "2026-01-23 1:00:00" 
excerpt_separator: <!--more--> 
--- 
 
### The COPASI team announces the immediate availability of the stable release COPASI 4.46 (Build 300).
 
A new release of COPASI has been made available. Please visit our [free download]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/) page to retrieve this latest development release. Please note this version is released under the [Artistic License 2.0]({{ site.baseurl }}/Download/License/), which is an [OSI](https://www.opensource.org/) approved license. This license allows non-commercial and commercial use free of charge. 
 
Release Date: January 23, 2026 

#### New Features since COPASI 4.45 (Build 298)
* Graphical User Interface (CopasiUI)
  * Parameter Estimation: Start in Steady State can now be selected per experiment.. 

<!--more-->
#### Bug Fixes and Enhancements since COPASI 4.45 (Build 298)
* Graphical User Interface (CopasiUI)
  * Parameter Overview: Fixed crash occurring when changing local reaction parameters. 
  * Optimization and Parameter Estimation: Fixed editing Display Population checkbox.
  * Global Quantity: Fixed potential crash when copying of a global quantity with an assignment containing a piece wise expression.
  * Load Parameter Sets: Fixed crash when loading additional parameter sets stored in a separate file.
  * Reactions: Fixed mapping of 2 substrate kinetics for reactions of the form 2 * Y -> ... 
  * Functions: Fixed copying of functions containing notes.
* Simulation Engine
  * Time Course: Fixed problem with event triggers evaluating to NaN.
  * Time Course: Improved root finding to determine event firing.
  * Time Course: Fixed initial event detection if the Start in Steady State is selected.
  * Time Course: Fixed detection of non integer stoichiometry for stochastic or hybrid algorithms.
  * Optimization and Parameter Estimation: Reaction parameters mapped to global quantities were not correctly loaded.
  * Scan: Fixed behavior of Continue from Current State.
  * JIT Compilation: Fixed crash occurring occasionally on Windows.
* Standards
  * COMBINE Archive: Fixed naming of experiment data files for Parameter Estimation.
  * SBML: Assure that the selected render information is exported.

More information can be found in the 
[changelog]({{ site.baseurl }}/Support/Change_History/COPASI_4_46_Build_300/). 
